README.md, before:

## PDS Modifications for https://altq.net

Please read the official PDS installation [README](https://github.com/bluesky-social/pds/blob/main/README.md) first.

Goals:
- allow serving a custom web page on the PDS root
- generate a status page for the PDS including account usage

See https://altq.net/status.html how it looks (hopefully boring enough)

Detailed explanations: TBD

For now:
- my PDS runs on Ubuntu 24.04
- read and modify the files appropriately
- put them in their respective directories
- restart PDS via systemctl

There is a `Makefile` that might give you some hints.

To get Caddy to use your webroot and not its internal one, add this to `compose.yaml`:
```diff
--- orig/compose.yaml
+++ compose.yaml
@@ -14,6 +14,9 @@
       - type: bind
         source: /pds/caddy/etc/caddy
         target: /etc/caddy
+      - type: bind
+        source: /pds/caddy/webroot
+        target: /srv/webroot
   pds:
     container_name: pds
     image: ghcr.io/bluesky-social/pds:0.4
```

Note: The `generate-status.py` script needs the Python `psutil` library. Install it with e.g.
```shell
apt install python3-psutil
```

License: MIT

Commit message:

feat: switch to provisioning with Ansible

README.md, after:

## PDS Modifications for https://altq.net

Please read the official PDS installation [README](https://github.com/bluesky-social/pds/blob/main/README.md) first.

Goals:
- allow serving a custom web page on the PDS root
- generate a status page for the PDS including account usage

See https://altq.net/status.html how it looks (hopefully boring enough)

Detailed explanations: TBD

For now:
- my PDS runs on Ubuntu 24.04
- read and modify the files appropriately
- put them in their respective directories
- restart PDS via systemctl

## Deploy with Ansible

Prereqs: `ansible-core` 2.20+ available locally and SSH access to the target host.

1. Copy `ansible/inventory.sample.ini` to `ansible/inventory.ini` and set `ansible_host` (and any path overrides) for your host in the `pds` group.
2. Adjust defaults in `ansible/group_vars/all.yml` if your remote paths differ (e.g., `pds_directory`, `status_output_path`).
3. Run the play:

```shell
ansible-playbook -i ansible/inventory.ini ansible/site.yml
```

Extras:
- Run the status generator immediately: `ansible-playbook ... -e status_run_once=true`.
- Restart the `pds` systemd unit as part of the run: `ansible-playbook ... -e pds_restart=true`.

To get Caddy to use your webroot and not its internal one, add this to `compose.yaml`:
```diff
--- orig/compose.yaml
+++ compose.yaml
@@ -14,6 +14,9 @@
       - type: bind
         source: /pds/caddy/etc/caddy
         target: /etc/caddy
+      - type: bind
+        source: /pds/caddy/webroot
+        target: /srv/webroot
   pds:
     container_name: pds
     image: ghcr.io/bluesky-social/pds:0.4
```

Note: The `generate-status.py` script needs the Python `psutil` library. Install it with e.g.
```shell
apt install python3-psutil
```

License: MIT
